fix(rdb): replication as pub (#5780)
scaleway/docs-content: pages/managed-databases-for-postgresql-and-mysql/api-cli/logical-replication-as-publisher.mdx

dates:
  validation: 2025-08-25
  posted: 2025-02-20
---
import Requirements from '@macros/iam/requirements.mdx'

The logical replication of databases as a publisher is available with [PostgreSQL 17](/managed-databases-for-postgresql-and-mysql/reference-content/pg-version-updates#postgresql-17), which is supported in Scaleway's Managed Databases for PostgreSQL.

The feature allows you to replicate data from a managed PostgreSQL to another Database Instance (a Managed PostgreSQL in another region, for example).

Replication slots can be created with the `failover` flag, which ensures that replication slots survive failovers. When a secondary node is promoted to primary, the replication slot is automatically available on the new main node.

<Requirements />

- A Scaleway account logged into the [console](https://console.scaleway.com)
- [Owner](/iam/concepts/#owner) status or [IAM permissions](/iam/concepts/#permission) allowing you to perform actions in the intended Organization
- A [Database Instance](/managed-databases-for-postgresql-and-mysql/how-to/create-a-database/) running PostgreSQL 17

## Configuring advanced settings and user rights

> As the service uses physical replication to provide High Availability, some parameters must be enabled to allow the logical replication to remain active after the promotion of a secondary node, without disturbing the HA setup. It is essential to ensure these setting are enabled as even Database Instances with in standalone mode can be replaced with temporary replicas.

Reviewer: Move this line after settings list

The [replication slot](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/17/logicaldecoding-explanation.html#LOGICALDECODING-REPLICATION-SLOTS) is an important part of the logical replication. Each subscription receives changes via one replication slot created on the "publishing" node. You have one replication slot available per logical database.

> To use replication, users must also have the corresponding rights.

Reviewer: Not sure if this sentence is useful here.

Follow the steps in the [How to configure advanced settings](/managed-databases-for-postgresql-and-mysql/how-to/configure-advanced-settings) documentation page to configure the following settings:

To enable logical replication, you must:

- Enable the `rdb.enable_logical_replication` setting. This automatically changes the `wal_level` settings to `logical`.
- Set `hot_standby_feedback` to `ON`
- Set `sync_replication_slots` to `ON`

Follow the steps in the [How to manage users](/managed-databases-for-postgresql-and-mysql/how-to/manage-users) documentation page to attribute user rights.

To create publications and replication slots, the `replication_user` must:

> - Either be an admin user (`rdb_admin`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Either be an member of admin user (`_rdb_admin`)
```

> - Or be granted the following rights from an `rdb_admin`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Or be granted the following rights from a role member of `_rdb_admin`:
```

        <Message type="note">
          Refer to the [PostgreSQL documentation](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/functions-admin.html#FUNCTIONS-REPLICATION) for more information about `pg_create_logical_replication_slot()`.
        </Message>
      </TabsTab>
    </Tabs>

5. Query the publisher table in the subscriber to test the replication.
    ```sql
    SELECT * FROM mytable;
    ```

## Limitations

- 100 replication slots are available for each Database Instance.
- 25 out of the 100 slots are reserved for Scaleway's internal systems.
- During the synchronization phase, 2 or more slots might be needed for a subscription.
    <Message type="important">
      - If you need more than 50 replication slots, [create a support ticket](https://console.scaleway.com/support).
      - If the limit is exceeded, your Managed Database service may become compromised.
    </Message>

    <Message type="tip">
    Run the following command to get a list of your replication slots:
    ```sql
    SELECT * FROM pg_replication_slots where slot_type = 'logical';
    ```
    And the following command to check publications:
    ```sql
    SELECT * from pg_publication;
    ```
    </Message>

> - If a logical replication is not active but still consumed by a subscription or other tool, PostgreSQL WAL files will accumulate in the primary node, filling up storage. In the worst case scenario, your database can be set to read only mode (check disk full section).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If a logical replication is not active (not consumed by a subscription or other tool), PostgreSQL WAL files will accumulate in the primary node, filling up storage. In the worst case scenario, your database can be set to read only mode (check disk full section) or unavailable.
```

Reviewer: Is it possible to set this message more visible ?

    <Message type="tip">

>       - We recommend you delete any replications that are no longer used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - We recommend you delete any replication slots that are no longer used.
```

## Configuring advanced settings and user rights

As the service uses physical replication internally, some advanced settings and parameters must be enabled to allow the logical replication to work properly with our system, for standalone and High Availability clusters.

Follow the steps in the [How to configure advanced settings](/managed-databases-for-postgresql-and-mysql/how-to/configure-advanced-settings) documentation page to configure the following settings:

To enable logical replication, you must:

- Enable the `rdb.enable_logical_replication` setting. This automatically changes the `wal_level` settings to `logical`.
- Set `hot_standby_feedback` to `ON`
- Set `sync_replication_slots` to `ON`- [replication slots](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/17/logicaldecoding-explanation.html#LOGICALDECODING-REPLICATION-SLOTS) is an important part of the logical replication. Each subscription receives changes via one replication slot created on the "publishing" node. You have one replication slot available per logical database.

<Message type="important">
  It is essential to set these parameters when using logical replication to ensure service availability.
</Message>

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
